this video and hundreds more like it
available on free Photoshop video
tutorials calm in this video we're going
to learn how to remove the typical blue
haze from scenic photos which is an
atmospheric distortion that happens as
distances pass and there are some clouds
and haze coming through typically an
image as it goes further and further out
and the distance will shift to more of a
blue cast so we're gonna learn how to
you know color correct the photo to
remove that blue haze and make it as it
should have been so let's have a look
here so here we have the image here it's
quite a nice scenic photo here and as
you can see here from the distance as we
get further and further we start getting
a bit of that blue haze coming through
here and also the the image here and
nothing is it's it's pretty flat here
the the colors here of the a of the
image so we're just gonna just do an
overall color just in here and remove
that blue and so forth so the first step
here is to create an adjustment layer
we're going to go ahead and click on
levels and now we're going to go into
each of our channels and correct the the
level output of each of the channels so
if we go in here into red as you can see
here there's no information here all the
way to this point here so what we need
to do is just move the slider so that we
get to the point where the actual
information in the image begins for the
red Channel we're going to move it to
the green and then we're going to move
it to the blue so that we have and
already we start corrupt color
correcting the photo so let's move this
here and I'll show you the before and
the after so we're adding some contrast
and we're actually color correcting a
bit of the photo now you might ask why
did we do for each one of these channels
instead of just moving the RGB one here
because it looked a bit similar well the
reason for that is that each the RGB
would just move an average of all of the
channels together and if we do the red
we can put move the red exactly to where
the red begins so the red begins at 27
the green moves at 25 and the blue at 15
so there's a bit of a difference there
and if you just do with the
do not doing to the most correct thing
so if you want to have your your image
color corrected it's better to do it in
each of the channels now we are going to
make one modification to all of the
channels at once so we need to go back
in here into our RGB and that
modification here is changing the gray
setting for the image so the gray point
so we're going to click here for the
sample in image to set a gray point so
we're going to click on that and now
we're going to go ahead and click on an
area of the image that is supposed to be
gray now before I do this let me just to
show you something that is important to
have first so let me just backtrack just
a little bit I'll click OK for now and
that is on your eyedropper tool because
we're essentially using the eyedropper
tool to select the gray you want to make
sure that your eyedropper tool is set
here at a 5x5 average instead of a point
sample 5x5 means that it'll just take
five pixels by five pixels and image
area and it will average out the color
between these five things so you're not
getting an anomaly of just one pixel
that is radically different from all the
others that you couldn't noticeably pick
up so let's go back in here and and do
that now so we're gonna go ahead and
click on our gray point here and now
we're going to set the gray point so
we're gonna make sure that we click on
an area that looks like it's a fifty
percent gray so it's between white and
black so a 50% gray seems pretty good
around here and as you can see that
makes already a world of a difference by
clicking on it and we're already
starting to color calibrate to the image
so that the greens are actually now
popping out we still have the blue cast
problem but we're gonna fix that right
now so we're gonna head and click okay
and now we're going to go into our
adjustment layers again go into hue and
saturation and now we want to instead of
editing anything here in the master one
which would select all the channels we
want to go into our blues which is the
case of our problem here with the
atmosphere and now we just want to set
the saturation back when I'm not get
back to around 50% 60% there abouts it
depends how much you want to go you
don't want to go too far out so that the
image loses
a lot of color so you might want to just
eyeball this one here and you can also
tick off the preview to see the before
and then the after and then continue
making an adjustments I think around 50
works really well for this image here we
removed some of that blue in the image
that was right there so we're gonna head
and click OK and now as you can see when
have a fully color corrected photo with
the blue cast removed and the Greens
actually popping out so let me show you
the before that's the before and that is
the after and that is a much better
photo if you enjoyed this video show
your support by subscribing rating and
adding it to favorites leave comments on
a website and we'll create even more
videos that interest you